.TH FIRMWARED 1
.SH NAME
firmwared \- Daemon for spawning and managing drone firmare instances
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B firmwared
[\fICONFIGURATION_FILE\fR]
.SH DESCRIPTION
.B firmwared
allows to create multiple instances of drone firmwares in containers and to
manage their lifecycle.
It is controlled by a socket, with libpomp for the protocol, so it can be used
with a variety of language.
A command line client,
.BR fdc(1)
is also available.
.SH EXIT STATUS
.B firmwared
returns 0 on success and 1 on error.
.SH ENVIRONMENT
.TP
.B FIRMWARED_MOUNT_HOOK
If
.RB $ FIRMWARED_MOUNT_HOOK
is set, it's value is used as the path to the helper executable responsible of
mounting the union fs of an instance and of cleaning it, defaults to
.BR /usr/libexec/firmwared/mount.hook .
.TP
.B FIRMWARED_SOCKET_PATH
If
.RB $ FIRMWARED_SOCKET_PATH
is set, it's value is used as the path to the socket used to control firmwared,
defaults to
.BR /var/run/firmwared.sock .
.TP
.B FIRMWARED_RESOURCES_DIR
If
.RB $ FIRMWARED_RESOURCES_DIR
is set, it's value is used as the path to the directory where the resource files
used by
.B firmwared
are stored.
There should be three files in this directory, names, adjectives and
apparmor.profile, defaults to
.BR /usr/share/firmwared/ .
.TP
.B FIRMWARED_REPOSITORY_PATH
If
.RB $ FIRMWARED_REPOSITORY_PATH
is set, it's value is used as the path to the directory in which the firmwares
filesystem images are stored, defaults to
.BR /usr/share/firmwared/firmwares/ .
.TP
.B FIRMWARED_MOUNT_PATH
If
.RB $ FIRMWARED_MOUNT_PATH
is set, then the firmware workspaces, that is, their set of mount points, will
be created in this directory.
Under this directory the following subtree will be used :

  +- /instance_sha1/
                   |
                   +- ro (read-only mount point of the firmware)
                   +- rw (directory with the rw layer)
                   +- union (union fs mount of ./rw upon ./ro)
                   +- workdir (used internally by OverlayFS)

defaults to
.BR /var/run/firmwared/mount_points .
.TP
.B FIRMWARED_NET_HOOK
If
.RB $ FIRMWARED_NET_HOOK
is set, it's value is used as the path to the helper executable responsible of
creating the veth pair and configuring it, defaults to
.BR /usr/libexec/firmwared/net.hook .
.TP
.B FIRMWARED_PREVENT_REMOVAL
If
.RB $ FIRMWARED_PREVENT_REMOVAL
is set to
.BR y ,
after dropping an instance, it's run artifacts will be preserved, that is, the
FIRMWARED_MOUNT_PATH/instance_sha1 directory will
.I not
be destroyed, defaults to
.BR n .
.TP
.B FIRMWARED_CONTAINER_INTERFACE
If
.RB $ FIRMWARED_CONTAINER_INTERFACE
is set, it will be used as the name of the network interface created for the
instances to communicate with the host, defaults to
.BR eth0 ,
must be less than 15 characters long.
.TP
.B FIRMWARED_HOST_INTERFACE_PREFIX
If
.RB $ FIRMWARED_HOST_INTERFACE_PREFIX
is set, then it will be used as the prefix for building the interface name for
the veth pair's end living in the host network namespace, defaults to
.BR fd_veth ,
must be less than 12 characters long.
.TP
.B FIRMWARED_NET_FIRST_TWO_BYTES
If
.RB $ FIRMWARED_NET_FIRST_TWO_BYTES
is set, then it will be used as the prefix for building the IP addresses for the
host and the container, defaults to
.BR 172.30. ,
must have the form 'X1.X2.' with X1 and X2 being two integers in [0, 255]
inclusive.
The host veth's end will have X1.X2.INSTANCE_ID.1/24 as it's IP address and the
instance's veth's end will have X1.X2.INSTANCE_ID.1/24.
.TP
.B FIRMWARED_DUMP_PROFILE
If
.RB $ FIRMWARED_DUMP_PROFILE
is set to
.BR y ,
the AppArmor profile used at each instance creation will be dumped to
firmwared's standard error, defaults to
.BR n .
.TP
.B FIRMWARED_DISABLE_APPARMOR
If
.RB $ FIRMWARED_DISABLE_APPARMOR
is set to
.BR y ,
AppArmor will not be used for protecting the host against potentially harmful
behaviour of the instances.
Please be aware that this is a dangerous option as it is likely to kill kittens,
you have been warned, defaults to
.BR n .

The firmwares initial indexing performs sha1 computation which can take a
significant amount of time.
Openmp is used to automatically make them in parallel.
It will try to choose the best number of threads automatically.
Limiting their number can be done with:
.TP
.B OMP_NUM_THREADS
If
.RB $ OMP_NUM_THREADS
is set to a valid number, it will be used as the maximum number of threads,
openmp will use to compute the firmwares sha1 in parallel. This number doens't
take the main thread into account.

.SH FILES
.TP
.I $FIRMWARED_MOUNT_HOOK
Helper executable responsible of instances' mount points management.
.TP
.I $FIRMWARED_NET_HOOK
Helper executable responsible of instances' network interfaces management.
.TP
.I $FIRMWARED_RESOURCES_DIR/names
List of names, used in the generation of entities unique names.
.TP
.I $FIRMWARED_RESOURCES_DIR/adjectives
List of adjectives, used in the generation of entities unique names.
.TP
.I $FIRMWARED_RESOURCES_DIR/firmwared.apparmor.profile
Template AppArmor profile, used to protect the host machine from potentially
dangerous behaviour of the instances.

.SH BUGS
.B firmwared
is in it's early stage and some bugs are may still be present.
Please report any bug found.
.SH AUTHORS
Written by Nicolas Carrier <nicolas.carrier@parrot.com>.
.SH SEE ALSO
.BR fdc (1),
.BR firmwared.conf (5),
.BR apparmor (7),
